---
layout: post
title: Fedora 11 Launch Party
date: 2009-06-12 11:45
author: dqminh
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
Hi people,

Fedora 11 is here in Singapore! Last Wednesday, the Launch Party for one of the biggest Linux distros was held at Capital Tower. linuxNUS was there and I was really amazed at the huge number of participants. Congrats to Fedora team for organizing such a nice event ;)

As for Fedora 11, we noticed that  a lot of features has been added or improved over the past released. Some of the notable ones are:
<ul>
	<li>Virtual Machine Manager: Fedora 11 now comes with a simple graphical management for virtual machines. This looks really good and honestly, i never noticed it until last Wednesday when Eugene showed us how easily we can manage our virtual machine using only the built-in utility.</li>
	<li>Pretty desktop with Compiz enabled: this is another win for linux ;) Fedora 11 comes with compiz packaged by default. I have tested F11 for 3 weeks before the release. Its graphics performance is really great even with my problematic Intel GM45 chipset. I guess this is because F11 use the newer 2.6.29 kernel and also the new drivers. Another win for staying on bleeding edge( cutting edge ) perhaps ;)</li>
	<li>Install software is really easy with 3 mouse clicks and Fedora's great package management system. You can run some Windows games with Wine. Skype runs natively and Pidgin is the choice for people who have multiple messaging accounts for whatever reasons ;)</li>
	<li>Regarding multimedia capabilities, MP3 and other codecs can be downloaded from http://rpmfusion.org/. Here is the link to the configuration instruction on how to enable the repositories: http://rpmfusion.org/Configuration</li>
</ul>
More information about Fedora 11 can be found here: http://fedoraproject.org
