# NUS Hackers open source code of conduct

## Be respectful

In your communications online, there will inevitably be people with whom you may disagree, or find
it difficult to cooperate. Accept that, but even so, remain respectful. Disagreement is no excuse
for poor behaviour or personal attacks, and a community in which people feel threatened is not a
healthy community.

## Assume good faith

We all have our own ways of reaching our common goal which may differ from your ways. Assume that
other people are working towards this goal.

Do keep in mind that others may not be native English speakers or may have different cultural
backgrounds.

## Be collaborative

There is a lot to do, but never enough time to do things. It's good to ask for help when you need
it. Similarly, offers for help should be seen in the context of our shared mission of spreading
hacker culture and free, open-source software.

When you make something for the benefit of the community, be willing to explain to others how it
works, so that they can build on your work to make it even better.

## Try to be concise

Keep in mind that what you write once will be read by hundreds of persons. Writing a short message
means people can understand the conversation as efficiently as possible. When a long explanation is
necessary, consider adding a summary.

Try to bring new arguments to a conversation so that each message adds something unique to the
thread, keeping in mind that the rest of the thread still contains the other messages with
arguments that have already been made.

Try to stay on topic, especially in discussions that are already fairly large.

## In case of problems

While this code of conduct should be adhered to by participants, we recognize that sometimes people
may have a bad day, or be unaware of some of the guidelines in this code of conduct. When that
happens, you may reply to them and point out this code of conduct. Such messages may be in public
or in private, whatever is most appropriate. However, regardless of whether the message is public
or not, it should still adhere to the relevant parts of this code of conduct; in particular, it
should not be abusive or disrespectful. Assume good faith; it is more likely that participants are
unaware of their bad behaviour than that they intentionally try to degrade the quality of the
discussion.

Serious or persistent offenders will be temporarily or permanently banned from communicating on NUS
Hackers-maintained platforms. Complaints should be made (in private) to the [NUS Hackers
Coreteam](https://www.nushackers.org/contact).

## Attribution

This document was adapted from the [Debian Code of Conduct](https://www.debian.org/code_of_conduct).
