---
author: shawntan
categories:
- Code
- Events
comments: true
date: 2011-09-25T00:00:00Z
title: Lady.Py
url: /2011/09/25/1800/
---

<div>
<div>
<div><span style="font-family: 'courier new', monospace; font-size: medium;">Python Programming and Web Development. From Scratch.</span></div>
<div><span style="font-family: 'courier new', monospace; font-size: x-large;"> </span></div>
<div>The Python User Group Singapore conducts a series of beginners' programming workshops to promote the use of Python in academia and in the workplace. The first workshop, LadyPy, successfully taught the basics of Python and Django to 30 women in Singapore. Together with NUS Hackers, PUGS will be conducting workshops for anyone in any faculty of NUS who is keen to pick up the fundamentals of Python and Django. Whether you want to pick up a new programming language, make the leap into coding for a living, or just learn something new, you're welcome at our workshops. PUGS supports diversity so females are especially encouraged to come learn with us in a friendly environment.
See <a href="http://ladypy.com/" target="_blank">here</a> to learn more about LadyPy.The details of the workshop are as follows:</div>
<strong>Who should come? </strong>Anyone who wants to learn Python and Django, <strong>no experience required</strong>.

</div>
<strong>Can men attend? </strong>Yes, but you should be accompanied by an interested lady. Also, women are given priority.

</div>
<div><strong>When?</strong> 3 Fridays: The 7th,14th and 21st October from 7:30pm to 10:30pm
<strong>Where? TBA</strong></div>
<div><strong>How much?</strong> $35 (for refreshments during the event, as well as to reimburse facilitators for transport costs)
<div>
<div><strong>
Registration Page:</strong> <a href="http://goo.gl/i0Y3U" target="_blank">http://goo.gl/i0Y3U</a></div>
</div>
<div><strong><span style="font-size: medium;">The workshop is limited to 40 participants, so register soon!</span></strong></div>
<div>The venue where the event will be held and additional instructions will be announced later via the email you supplied.
Kindly contact Shawn at <a href="mailto:shawn@nushackers.org" target="_blank">shawn@nushackers.org</a> for additional enqueries. Hope to see you there!</div>
</div>
