---
author: Advay Pal
date: 2016-10-14T21:49:38.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #121, October 14'
url: /2016/10/friday-hacks-121
---

This week have Chuk from from NUS ISS and Yos from Paypal talking about JavaScript Promises, and GraphQL respectively. See you there!

Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/348978242107994/)

{{< friday_hack_header venue="The Hangar by NUS Enterprise" date="October 14" >}}

### JS Promises

#### Talk Description:

The promise is an important programming concept and pattern in JavaScript environment. In this session we will talk about the following:

The what and the whys of promise

Common uses of promises with examples from jQuery, Angular and Node; sequencing, coordinating parallel tasks

Monads - a general pattern


#### Speaker Profile

Chuk is a lecturer at NUS ISS.


### GraphQL in an Age of REST

#### Talk Description:

GraphQL is an application layer query language from Facebook. With GraphQL, you can define your backend as a well-defined graph-based schema. Then client applications can query your dataset as they are needed. GraphQL’s power comes from a simple idea — instead of defining the structure of responses on the server, the flexibility is given to the client. In this talk, discover a new approach to build and expose Web APIs. Will GraphQL do to REST what REST did to SOAP?


#### Speaker Profile

Yos is a recent Computer Science graduate from NUS SoC, currently working as a software engineer at PayPal. In his spare time, Yos moonlights as an API fanatic and enjoys learning new things.
