---
author: Advay Pal
date: 2016-10-28T09:09:57.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #123, October 28'
url: /2016/10/friday-hacks-123
---

This week we have Jordan and Shekhar from TradeGecko talking about the benefits of using Go, and it's utility in a range of problem domains, including microservice based architectures. See you there!

Facebook event [here](https://web.facebook.com/events/1687498014897347/)

{{< friday_hack_header venue="SR3, Town Plaza, University Town" date="October 28" >}}

### Why Go For Go!

#### Talk Description:

The Go Programming Language - often referred to as GoLang - was launched by Google in 2007. Co-created by Ken Thompson (co-creator of Unix and creator of B, the predecessor to C), Rob Pike, and Robert Griesemer, Go has been growing in popularity year-after-year.

We believe that there are good reasons for Go’s growing popularity and believe you should seriously consider it as the next programming language you learn.

In this talk, we will cover the benefits provided by Go and why we like it for a range of problem domains, including microservice based architectures.

#### Speaker Profile

Jordan Dea-Mattson

Jordan is the VP of Software Engineering at TradeGecko. He has over 35 years of experience with many of them in Silicon Valley. He has worked for Silicon Valley icons including Apple, Adobe, Yahoo, as well as startups including IMPAC Medical Systems, Numenta, and Ooyala. Jordan has emigrated to Singapore from the US and wants to help build a world class software engineering community in Singapore. When he isn’t working, Jordan trains for triathlons and road races.


Shekhar Raju

Shekhar leads Mobile engineering at TradeGecko. He graduated from the National University of Singapore in 2015 with a major in Computer Engineering and a minor in Business and has been with TradeGecko ever since. He previously also interned at Apple and TradeGecko. Shekhar is passionate about iOS, mapping, startups and travel.
