---
author: Advay Pal
date: 2016-09-09T18:47:01.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #117, September 9'
url: /2016/09/friday-hacks-117
---

This week, we have Melvin from Cosmiqo talking about Programs that play better than us, and Zhi An from our Coreteam talking about Chromelens. See you there!

Facebook Event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/146066629176746/).

{{% friday_hack_header venue="SR3, Town Plaza, University Town" date="September 9" %}}

### Programs that Play better than Us

#### Talk Description:

How do programs play games at the level of the best human players and beyond?
From Checkers to Chess and now Go, the ability of game playing programs have
improved dramatically from a combination of clever algorithms and faster
hardware. This talk is an introduction to the state of game playing algorithms
and future challenges

This talk is based on Melvin's experience developing Magarena, an AI that
plays Magic: The Gathering

#### Speaker Profile

Melvin is an alumni of NUS School of Computing. As the CTO of Cosmiqo
(//cosmiqo.com/), Melvin is in charge of developing its sensor data
aggregation and analytics platform. In his spare time, Melvin works on the AI
for Magarena (https://magarena.github.io/), an open source card game project.



### Accessibility and ChromeLens

#### Talk Description:

Zhi An will be talking about accessibility, what it is, how to do it, and a [chrome extension](//chromelens.xyz/) his friends and him built to help you build better websites. He will also take a tour through building a chrome extension too!

#### Speaker Profile

Zhi An is a year 4 CS undergraduate. When he's not doing school work, he loves reading technology news (Hacker News is his favourite) and trying out new Linux distributions.
