---
author: Ramu
date: 2017-03-31T18:41:10.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #133, March 31'
url: /2017/04/friday-hacks-133
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

Hey folks, join this special edition on cyber security to hear from Jeff Moss and Halvar Flake!

Event Description:
NUS Greyhats and NUS Hackers are co-organizing this coming speaker series! For this event, we have invited two distinguished speakers. (1) Jeff Moss, founder of DEFCON and BlackHat and (2) Halvar Flake, Staff Engineer in Google, member of the Google Project Zero. Stay tuned for updates on the topics of their talks!

Note:
Prior to the event, NUS Enterprise is celebrating their first anniversary with an open house to showcase the startups products too. Do come down early to get yourselves immersed in the technological fiesta and enjoy local delights such as ramly burgers and satays.

Please RSVP your attendance for the event [here](https://www.eventnook.com/event/securityfh2017/home)! Registration is required for the food and refreshments sponsored by NUS Enterprise.

Programme:<br />
5:00pm - 7:00pm : NUS Enterprise Open Day (at The Hangar by NUS Enterprise)<br />
7:00pm - 7:45pm : Sharing by Jeff Moss<br />
7:45pm - 8:30pm : Sharing by Halvar Flake<br />
8:30pm - 8:45pm : Q&A session

Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/1802311516756267/)

<blockquote>
    <strong>Date/Time</strong>: Friday, March 31 at 7:00pm <br />
    <strong>Venue</strong>: i-Cube Building Auditorium, NUS <br />
    <strong>NUS Enterprise Open Day from 5:00pm to 7:00pm.</strong> <br />
</blockquote>

### Perspectives on Cyber Security

#### Speaker Profile

JEFF MOSS
Jeff Moss has spent the last 17 years as founder and director of Black Hat and DefCon, two of the most influential information security conferences in the world. Moss speaks frequently before a wide range of audiences on the topic of computer and information security. In 2009 Moss was appointed to the Homeland Security Advisory Council to provide advice and recommendations to the Secretary on matters related to homeland security. Moss is uniquely qualified with his ability to bridge the gap between the underground researcher community and law enforcement, between the worlds of pure research and responsible application disclosure.

#### Speaker Profile

HALVAR FLAKE
Thomas Dullien / Halvar Flake started work in reverse engineering and digital rights management in the mid-90s, and began to apply reverse engineering to vulnerability research shortly thereafter. He pioneered early windows heap exploitation, patch diffing / bindiffing and various other reverse engineering techniques. In 2004, he started zynamics, a company focused on reverse engineering technologies. He continued to publish about reverse engineering, ROP gadget search, and knowledge management technologies in relation to reverse engineering. In 2011, zynamics was acquired by Google, and Halvar spent the next few years working on defensive technologies that leveraged the then hot buzzwords "big data" and "machine learning". In summer 2015, Halvar received the lifetime achievement Pwnie, and decided to take a year off to travel, read, and surf. Since November 2016, he is back at Google.
