---
title: "Friday Hacks #140, October 13"
date: 2017-10-06 12:35:34.446975
author: Herbert
url: /2017/09/friday-hacks-140
---

{{% friday_hack_header venue="The HANGAR by NUS Enterprise" date="October 13" %}}


### Functional Systems in a Non-functional World

#### Talk Description:

In systems engineering we deal with shared state, impurities and mutable data. Nix and NixOS provide a practical and efficient way to remove a lot of that ugliness in a safe, repeatable and reliable way.

We will be going through how it solves real-life problem such as:
- cleanly change (and roll-back) deployed systems
- ensuring developers have the exact same environments
- getting rid of language/framework specific package managers (virtuelenv, rbenv, etc) to provide a single cohesive language

This is not an abstract functional programming talk but we will show how the principles from FP make perfect sense for defining practical systems.

#### Speaker Profile

Peter Hoeg from Speartail Pte Ltd - a Singapore MSP that deals predominately with customers in the transportation sector. In addition to running all our Linux based code on NixOS, we use it for generating appliances that we deploy with our customers.

Peter is a NixOS core committer.


### Getting to Know Containers and Docker

#### Talk Description:

Docker is leading a fundamental shift in the world of cloud computing when it comes to packaging, delivering and running applications as containers. The focus of this talk is to acquaint the audience with a basic understanding of the virtualization mechanism in containers and the workflow of working with Docker. Furthermore, the talk will also cover the practice of distributing apps using Docker and the rise of micro-service architecture.

#### Speaker Profile

Kong Hancong is now working as a system engineer in Visa Singapore, focusing on building enterprise cloud infrastructure using containerization technology. Before joining Visa, she completed her Master's in Computer Science from NUS in 2016.
