---
author: Jethro
date: 2017-03-24T15:10:31.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #132, March 24'
url: /2017/03/friday-hacks-132
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

Hello folks! Welcome back to Friday Hacks #132. This week we'll be having a talk by Abhilash, the creator of Bus Uncle, about how he built Singapore's most viral chatbot. After which, there will be a panel discussion headed by NUS Hackers Coreteam about how to maximize your summer.

{{< friday_hack_header venue="SR5, Town Plaza, University Town, NUS" date="March 24" >}}

### How to Build a Bot People Will Love

#### Talk Description:
Bus Uncle is Singapore's favourite bot - a grumpy, snarky, and rude but friendly little uncle is all that passengers needed to have a better commute experience. Abhilash will be speaking about how he built Bus Uncle, and what he thinks made it go viral.

#### Speaker Profile
Abhilash is a software engineer at TradeGecko - a SaaS startup for younger businesses. He was part of the winning team of the first Singapore Facebook Hackathon, and came 3rd in the global finals in Menlo Park. He loves music, code, and animations and enjoys having humourous and witty conversations.


### Panel Discussion - Summer Plans

#### Talk Description:
Summer is the longest break of the year. This is when you get the most time learning something extracurricular, such as building your own website. Programs like Orbital and Google Summer of Code are offered. Internships, both local and overseas, are also viable choices. Spoilt for choice, and can't decide what to do? Or simply curious about what you're going to be doing, and what you're going to be missing out? Come on down, and learn from some of the experiences of our coreteam members.

#### Speaker Profile:
Our panel members are Coreteam members, your friendly organizers at Friday Hacks!
