---
title: "Friday Hacks #143, November 10"
date: 2017-11-09 15:46:20.528772
author: 
url: /2017/November/friday-hacks-143
---

This Friday, our very own coreteam members will be sharing how to contribute to open-source projects. We also have other NUS students and Professor Damith who will be sharing about how they started contributing to open-source and how can one get started.

{{% friday_hack_header venue="SR3, Town Plaza, University Town, NUS" date="November 10" %}}


### Contributing to Open Source Projects

#### Talk Description:

Ever wanted to contribute a software you use everyday but found the codebase too daunting? Or perhaps you never thought you too can contribute to a host of exciting projects which thousands of people use everyday?

This Friday, we will share why you should contribute to open-source projects, and how to get started! As speakers, we have NUS students who have contributed to different projects in the past.

We also have our very own Professor Damith who will be talking about the open source scene in NUS and how you too can get involved!

Free pizza is served before the talks.

#### Speaker Profile

Herbert is a year 3 CS student and is a NUS Hackers coreteam member. He contributed to Rubocop (github.com/bbatsov/rubocop), a Ruby linting library.

Likai is a year 3 CS student and a NUS Hackers coreteam member. He contributed to Webpack (github.com/webpack), a Javascript asset management library.

Sriram is a year 3 CS student who currently works in Yonah. He contributed to ArduPilot (github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot), an advanced open source autopilot software.
