---
title: "Friday Hacks #142, October 27"
date: 2017-10-22 17:47:58.542886
author: Herbert
url: /2017/10/friday-hacks-142
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

{{< friday_hack_header venue="SR3, Town Plaza, University Town, NUS" date="October 27" >}}


### Making Engineering of Customised Kill Switches Easier

#### Talk Description:

Many SynBio groups are engineering microbes that could one day be useful in detecting diseases, fighting cancer and monitoring heavy metals in rivers. However, engineered microbes may leak into the non-designated environment, posing threats to our natural ecosystem. This is a major hurdle towards the commercialization of engineered microbes. To address this, we need effective kill switches to prevent engineered microbes from escaping into the environment.

Team NUSgem aims to make engineering of customised, effective kill switches easier. To this end, we are developing a library of characterized sensors, a killing and verification module which can be used in a computer-aided design tool and can be readily modelled. This talk aims to provide an introduction to modelling genetic circuits in synthetic biology.

#### Speaker Profile

Wilbert, Khue and Wenhao are from NUSGem. NUSgem is a team of seven NUS students from different faculties competing in the prestigious synthetic biology competition, iGEM. We like bacteria, models and hotpot.

### I Haskell A Git

#### Talk Description:

Git has a reputation for being obtuse and difficult to use. Part of this reputation stems from a focus on understanding the intricate details of the UI instead of forming a mental model of what the tool is actually doing. To address this, we're going to implement our own Git, and confirm that it works as we expect.

#### Speaker Profile

Vaibhav is a programmer in search of better tools and techniques. After writing lots of bugs as a web developer, he took some time off to attend a batch at the Recurse Center and make sense of this functional programming thing. Now he manages servers for Zalora.
