---
author: Jethro Kuan
date: 2017-03-10T18:32:21.000Z
title: 'Friday Hacks #130, March 10'
url: /2017/03/friday-hacks-130
---

Hello folks, this week we're very excited to have Virgil Griffith over to speak about Bitcoin, Ethereum, the dark web as well as the exciting prospects of legaltech.

{{% friday_hack_header venue="The Hangar by NUS Enterprise" date="March 10" %}}

### Bitcoin, Darkweb, Ethereum and LegalTech

#### Talk Description:
A showcase of recent work Virgil has done in the darkweb, blockchain, and legaltech space. Some highlights include:

* owning and operating the world's largest search engine and proxy for the darkweb, //onion.link/, enabling all manner of analyses of darkweb content and traffic.
* a system by which regulators can freeze bitcoin accounts.
* an entrepreneurial graph to stand alongside the Erdos and Bacon collaboration graphs.
* the very first graph of the Ethereum contract ecosystem.
* an Ethereum powered light-weight replacement for commercial VPNs.
* the potential of a domain-specific language instantiating a "Periodic Table of Contracts" to negotiate contracts between IoT devices and revolutionize the creation of smart-contracts and traditional legal drafting.

#### Speaker Profile
Virgil Griffith is a postdoctoral fellow at smart.mit.edu, contractor for the Ethereum Foundation, and cofounder of the Legalese opensource project. Virgil's primary interests are in smart-contracts/Ethereum, arcane corners of higher mathematics, and technologies that interplay privacy and transperancy for collective good. His favorite tools are information theory, graph theory, Haskell, and large harddrives. Virgil believes a rigorous formalization of obligation structures will bring about a global digitization with an impact of >1T dollars and is teaching himself deonitic logic and formal verification to make this happen. Virgil received his PhD from Caltech studying info-theoretic measures of quantifying the functional complexity of neural networks. His Erdős-Bacon number is 6. A New York Times biography dubbed him the "Internet Man of Mystery".
