---
title: "Friday Hacks #151, March 16"
date: 2018-03-12 22:02:30.815604
author: Julius
url: /2018/03/friday-hacks-151
---

{{% friday_hack_header venue="Seminar Room 1, Town Plaza, University Town (UT22-02-04A)" date="March 16" %}}


### Intro to WebRTC

#### Talk Description:

Implementing skype by yourself used to be a daunting task. Coming up with algorithms to find the best way to route audio/video data between peers is previously would require a heavy amount of work. Making it work well on mobile, where users easily switch between networks and expect calls to not disconnect when travelling on the MRT, is not trivial either. There are also headaches like choosing the right encoding since not all devices have hardware support for the latest formats.

The WebRTC project aimed to provide a common implementation to solve these problems. It established a common API that mobile and web clients can use to implement apps involving real-time, audio-video communication. Under the hood, it came up with several protocols like ICE, SDP, TURN, STUN etc to tackle these problems.

This talk will take a look how to use WebRTC, as well as a brief dive into how the protocols work under the hood.

#### Speaker Profile

Omer is an NUS Hackers alumni, and currently works as an iOS Engineer at Sea. He also serenades as a functional programming evangelist. He’s been spotted venturing out of the haskell ivory tower and exploring compilers and networks.


### Introduction to Quantum Computing

#### Speaker Profile

Joseph Fitzsimons is a theoretical physicist working on the development of quantum computation. He is currently an Assistant Professor at Singapore University of Technology and Design, and a Principal Investigator at the Centre for Quantum Technologies. Dr Fitzsimons is a National Research Foundation Fellow, and in 2016 was named an Innovator Under 35 Asia Pacific honouree. Dr Fitzsimons holds a BSc in theoretical physics from University College Dublin, and a DPhil from the University of Oxford. Prior to moving to Singapore, Dr. Fitzsimons was a fellow of Merton College, Oxford, and a senior research fellow in Oxford’s Department of Materials.

