---
title: "Friday Hacks #161, October 19"
date: 2018-10-16 11:44:55.016900
author: E-Liang
url: /2018/10/friday-hacks-161
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="SR7, Town Plaza Level 2, University Town, NUS"
    date="October 19"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/2223364557920903/" >}}


### High Performance... Python?

#### Talk Description:

Everyone knows Python is slow.  But it is widely used for scientific research and large-scale data processing.  How?  We will explore techniques to meld the performance of compiled languages like Fortran, C, and C++ with Python, including numerical and scientific computing libraries like NumPy, Pandas, and more.

#### Speaker Profile

John Zwinck is a competitive sailor, long distance cyclist, and lead software engineer at DRW Singapore.  He has worked for 15 years in the finance industry, including 10 years using hybrid programming to combine high productivity languages like Python with efficient compiled code.  DRW develops and operates efficient software for quantitative research and algorithmic trading in financial markets worldwide, including extensive coverage of Asian markets in its Singapore office.

### 7 Years of 3DS Hacking

(In both senses of the word.)

#### Talk Description:

It has been 7 years since the 3DS launched in 2011, and we are nearing the console's end of life. We take a brief look at the history of 3DS hacking and the overall design of the 3DS's security and DRM model, and a somewhat detailed technical look at some of the exploits used in the past and today. We also touch on how to get started with 3DS homebrew, and some of the interesting projects ongoing today.

#### Speaker Profile

Hao Wei is a current computer science undergraduate in SoC. In the past, he has worked on implementing some of the exploits used today to run homebrew on the 3DS.
