---
title: "Friday Hacks #150, March 9"
date: 2018-02-27 19:49:20.830103
author: Julius
url: /2018/03/friday-hacks-150
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

Hi hackers, Friday Hacks is back after Recess Week. This time we have Joaquín from EF who will speak about Virtual World,
as well as our very own Johannes who will speak about Kubernetes.

{{< friday_hack_header venue="Seminar Room 3, NUS School of Computing (COM1-0212)" date="March 9" >}}


### Scaling Virtual Worlds to Millions

#### Talk Description:

Real time communication services like whatsapp, wechat or skype can connect simultaneously hundreds of millions. However, surprisingly, virtual worlds are still unable to put together more than a few hundred users in the same contiguous space. So, no woodstock-size concerts, no mass demonstrations, no commercial fairs, no crowds in virtual worlds. So far.... What's the problem and how we solved it.

#### Speaker Profile

Joaquín KELLER has a MSc in mathematics and PhD in distributed computing. He is a senior researcher at Orange Labs (France Telecom R&D) and Centre de Recherche Interdisciplinaire de Paris. He started programming AI in 1991 and has since worked in prominent research institutes and universities. He has lead research teams on projects like peer-to-peer virtual worlds, decentralized search engines and scalable multimedia live streaming. He recently started exaQuark, a company aimed at building mixed reality experiences at planet scale.



### Hello Kube

#### Talk Description:
Johannes discusses the core concepts of Kubernetes, introduces the tools and resources used to try Kubernetes out, and bringing a bare bones Kubernetes cluster running a web service online, with the help of a couple community resuources. Most code and configuration presented is available at github.com/jhanschoo

#### Speaker Profile
Johannes is a CS undergrad and part of NUS Hackers coreteam. He's still new to working with Kubernetes himself, but is pretty certain that what he's going to present is clean, solid stuff.
