---
title: "Friday Hacks #163, November 2"
date: 2018-11-01 10:41:09.276579
author: E-Liang
url: /2018/11/friday-hacks-163
---

{{% friday_hack_header
    venue="SR5, Town Plaza Level 2, University Town, NUS"
    date="November 2"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/2655672187792087/" %}}


### MIFARE Classic Exploits: What's inside your matriculation card?

#### Talk Description:

NFC and RFID is everywhere in our daily lives. One of the standards commonly used is the MIFARE Classic standard. However, it is unfortunately susceptible to multiple vulnerabilities. In this talk, we will explore the security of MIFARE Classic cards and how to break them, as well as a live demonstration of breaking the keys of MIFARE Classic cards.

#### Speaker Profile

Julius is a Year 3 Computer Science student who had a misspent recess week researching the weaknesses of MIFARE Classic cards. He is a proud member of NUS Hackers and has been self-learning programming since 10 years ago, building systems as well as poking systems for vulnerabilities.


### Making Binary Search Fast Again

#### Talk Description:

Everyone's familiar with binary search - perhaps the first algorithm that most students learn! Although asymptotically fast, it can be slow if implemented poorly. This talk will describe a few techniques to make binary search really fast - code generation, avoiding branch-prediction and optimizing cache use.

#### Speaker Profile

Varun is a final year computer science undergrad and a NUS Hackers coreteam member for over 3 years. His recent interests include low latency programming (inspired by his latest internship at Jane Street) and constraint solving. A fun fact, he's interned at 5 companies in 5 different cities.

