---
title: "Friday Hacks #158, September 14"
date: 2018-09-13 09:42:07.412787
author: E-Liang
url: /2018/09/friday-hacks-158
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

This Friday is a special one. An AI expert will be coming down to share about cutting-edge AI trends and applications. Also, our very own coreteam members will be sharing their internship experiences both locally and overseas. We will also invite NUS students who have done internships in various companies.

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="<a href=\"https://goo.gl/maps/VLTkyW6QzKp\">i-Cube Auditorium</a>"
    date="September 14"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/542339376174590/" >}}

### Homo ex Machina: Uploading man on hard drive

#### Talk Description:

In Singapore for a few days: join [Sergei Markoff](http://markoff.science/index_en.html), a world-famous expert on artificial intelligence, for his talk on neural interfaces, neural models & possibilities of uploading consciousness on a flash drive in our time.

The borderline between AI and humans has been getting thinner. How close are the latest technologies to creating a machine that’s equal to a human brain? How do you extract information from a brain? How do you restore failing body functions using neural interfaces? Get these and more questions answered!

We’ll cover the brief history of neuromorphic machines, learn of the existing invasive and non-invasive interfaces, brainstorm around neuroplasticity and dive into the recent progress in bionic prosthetics & creating animal-cyborgs.

### Internships, and How to Get Them

#### Talk Description:

Learn why you should do internships, how to choose companies, and of course, how to get them!

Ask questions of other students who have interned locally and overseas at various companies. These companies include Google, Facebook, Twitter, Asana, Apple, Affirm, Jump Trading, and Jane Street as well as local companies like Carousell, Garena, Grab!

To the freshmen, it's never too early to start!

You've probably read about tech internships and all their various perks. Heck, you've probaby even seen a movie about it. Now's the time to live it. This talk will address all the questions you've ever had about internships and help you on your way to getting one.

Free pizza is served before the talks.

#### Speaker Profile

Li Kai is a Year 4 Computer Science student who did internships at Facebook and Carousell.

Varun is a Year 5 Computer Science student who did internships at Jane Street, Jump Trading, Asana, Garena and Grab.
