---
title: "Friday Hacks #149, February 23"
date: 2018-02-14 13:46:05.430967
author: Julius
url: /2018/02/friday-hacks-149
---

Hi hackers, this week we have Parth Pokar from Maltem who would be talking about
Blockchains!
{{% friday_hack_header venue="TBC" date="February 23" %}}


### A Gentle Introduction to Blockchain

#### Talk Description:

**Session 1 (Overview)**: This session gives an intuition on how Blockchain works. After which we tend to discuss a lot of use cases of Blockchain, various startups around the globe working on interesting Blockchain based solutions, this helps to widen the scope and gives a lot of food for thought.
- Understanding Basics of Blockchain
- Bitcoin and ethereum
- Decentralized Autonomous Organization
- Initial Coin Offering – I.C.O
- Public vs Private and permissioned Blockchain
- Use-Cases in various industries.

**Session 2 (Technical)**: In this session, we dive a bit more into how cryptography, mining etc. works. This helps budding developers to understand the potential of Blockchain and means to use it. 
- Cryptography Fundamentals
- Asymmetric encryption with Public and Private Keys
- What is mining and how does it work?
- Distributed File System
- Architecture of Decentralized Application (DApp)

#### Speaker Profile
**Parth Pokar** is a lead Blockchain Consultant at Maltem’s Innovation Lab. In the past 2 years, Parth has delivered Blockchain projects in energy trading, assessment of digital assets and more. Parth brings in a good overview on the Blockchain technology and the challenges of The Smart Economy.
