---
title: "Friday Hacks #179, September 13: High-throughout blockchain & Open Source"
date: 2019-08-30 20:06:32.593550
author: Raynold Ng
url: /2019/08/friday-hacks-179
---

{{% friday_hack_header
    venue="Town Plaza Seminar Room 5, UTown, NUS"
    date="Sep 13"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/666483593860901/" %}}


### Building a high-throughput blockchain platform for applications

#### Talk Description:

- What is blockchain and short overview on consensus algorithms
Overview of Zilliqa 
- Introduction to sharding in public blockchains
- Introduction to smart contracts and why we developer our own smart contract language, Scilla
- Short introduction to applications development - How to get started?

#### Speaker Profile

Jun Hao is a developer on weekdays and security geek on weekend. His experiences spanned over multiple computer science domains including blockchain, web security, trusted computing, and program analysis. At Zilliqa, he has co-developed a world-first public blockchain platform that uses sharding to scale. He is also the co-founder of 2 cybersecurity interest groups, Edgis and NUS Greyhats.
 
Edison leads a team of application developers at Aqilliz, a blockchain solutions provider that create trust, transparency, and convenience for the rapidly growing platform economy. Edison and his team worked on Proton, a digital advertising reconciliation platform and HG Exchange, a private equities member-based exchange. Edison holds a M.Sc from CMU, and enjoys software engineering, blockchain and cybersecurity

### Open source: what, why and how

#### Talk Description:

Open-source software is everywhere around us; from Linux to Mozilla Firefox and 7-Zip, in many cases, the preferred application for a task is open-source, and much of the Internet today runs on open-source software. We discuss briefly what exactly open-source means, why it is important for the field of computing as a whole and its close ties to hacker culture, and how you can get started both in contributing to open-source and also open-sourcing your own software. In the process, we will cover the differences between the major categories of open-source software licenses, as well as some of the philosophy behind open-source software and also free software.

#### Speaker Profile

Hao Wei is a computer science undergraduate, and an NUS Hackers coreteam member.

Please RSVP at our Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/666483593860901/) if you are coming so we know how many people to cater for.

See you there!
