---
title: "Friday Hacks #181, Oct 11: Nudging and Machine Learning with Databricks"
date: 2019-10-03 20:06:34
author: Raynold Ng
url: /2019/10/friday-hacks-181
---

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="Town Plaza Seminar Room 5, UTown, NUS"
    date="Oct 11"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/3015109651864411/" >}}


### Nudge - Influencing Customer Behavior

#### Talk Description:

Nudge is a concept in Behavioral Sciences where positive reinforcement and indirect suggestion can influence people's behavior. During the talk we would briefly discuss about "Nudge" as a concept and also see how various corporations have been using the concept to influence its consumers. This talk will be equally helpful for Engineers and Product Managers to see how small changes in product can affect user's behavior.

#### Speaker Profile

Ameya currently works as Group Manager for Rakuten Asia Pte. Ltd and works in the Global Advertisement Division. He holds MBA degrees from NUS Business School and UCLA Anderson School of Management and he completed engineering in Computer Science from Devi Ahilya University, India. An engineer at heart, he is fascinated by human behavior and how it defies the common logic in day to day corporate world.

### Machine Learning with Databricks and PySpark

#### Talk Description:

This talk will explore few of the hottest technologies in the market today, machine learning, big data and cloud computing. With the help of an interesting use case and one of the fastest upcoming Spark based tools called Databricks, the talk will focus on how machine learning using code can be used to solve industry problems effectively.

#### Speaker Profile

Aditya is the Co-Founder and CTO of a product and services start-up in Singapore called Xaltius. He has a Masters in Knowledge Engineering from NUS and have more than 6 years of industry experience working with various consulting firms, domains and across various technologies.

Please RSVP at our Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/3015109651864411/) if you are coming so we know how many people to cater for.

See you there!
