---
title: "Friday Hacks #185, Nov 8: Proofs for scaling blockchain computation and Encoding images in Source"
date: 2019-11-01 00:00:00
author: Raynold Ng
url: /2019/11/friday-hacks-185
---

{{% friday_hack_header
    venue="Town Plaza Seminar Room 5, UTown, NUS"
    date="Nov 1"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/632909020446906/" %}}

### Succinct proofs for scaling computation on the blockchain

#### Talk Description:

Verifying block transactions is computationally intensive and creates a
throughput bottleneck for blockchain nodes. One area of active research in
blockchain scalability is verifiable computation: this is where heavy
computations are outsourced to a third-party, yet can still be verified remotely
by a light client with limited resources. It works by requiring third-parties to
produce succinct proofs of their computations: "succinct" because they can be
verified using only a fraction of the proving time. We will explore two
constructions, "Rollup" and "Rollup Non-Custodial", which use SNARKs (succinct
non-interactive arguments of knowledge) to verifiably outsource computation on
the blockchain.

#### Speaker Profile

Ying Tong is a Physics graduate student at NUS. She also works as a researcher
at the Centre for Quantum Technologies and the Ethereum Foundation. She's
interested in cryptography, p2p and privacy.

### Reproduction of images in Source with minimal tokens

#### Talk Description:

The talk is about how to reproduce images in a sublanguage of JavaScript, called
Source. Source is used in CS1101S, the first programming module students will
take in NUS CS. Source is an extremely stripped down version of JavaScript, and
it was created as a teaching aid so as to limit students only specific features
of the language.

In CS1101S, there was a competition that lets student write
code to generate out an image. The score of the image is decided by the number
of votes as well as number of tokens used in the code. The core of the talk will
be on a algorithm on how to encode and retrieve any image and display it, while
using minimal tokens.

#### Speaker Profile

Uriel is a Year 2 Computer Science student in NUS. He is interested in
algorithms/embedded systems/human-computer interaction and also does some
hardware projects in his free time.

Please RSVP at our Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/632909020446906/) if you are coming so we know how many people to cater for.

See you there!
