---
title: "Friday Hacks #166, January 25"
date: 2019-01-18 04:28:52.468824
author: Hao Wei
url: /2019/01/friday-hacks-166
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

Friday Hacks is back for the new semester! Join us for the pizza, stay for the code and hacks, and leave with new friends and ideas.

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="<a href=\"https://goo.gl/maps/xzCo9XgMn4w\">LT15, AS6, NUS</a>"
    date="January 25"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/2039468676351572/" >}}


### Methods and Process in Building Experiential Features

#### Talk Description:

We discuss methods and processes in building experiential features using a feedback loop-based Continual Deployment Strategy. We will touch on how Autodesk has Scalable models and interesting solutions based on feedback, continuous deployment and hackathons.

#### Speaker Profile

Nagendra Bangalore is Director of Subscriber Platform Group at Autodesk Singapore Research & Development (ASRD). Member of ASRD Site Council, Nagendra leads the Digital Platform and Engineering Group. Prior to Autodesk, Nagendra was Director of Engineering at Adobe, Creative Cloud Engineering; and VP Engineering at Aurigo Software. Nagendra is an alum of Yale’s Global Executive Leadership Program, Class of 2017.


### Encoding Images in Source 1 with Minimal Tokens

#### Talk Description:

We discuss how to encode and decode arbitrary colour images in a sublanguage of JavaScript called Source, used in CS1101S, the introductory programming module that all SoC CS freshmen take. Source 1 is a very limited subset of JavaScript, used as a teaching aid to avoid overwhelming those new to programming. It contains only pure functions and primitive operations; even the string methods are unavailable. In CS1101S, there is a competition where students write code that generates an image, using some provided helper functions. The score of each entry is determined by the number of votes, but there is a penalty based on the number of tokens in the code.

#### Speaker Profile

Uriel is a year 1 computer science student who took CS1101S in the previous semester. He is interested in algorithms and also does some hardware projects in his free time.

