---
title: "Friday Hacks #168, February 15"
date: 2019-02-10 04:07:03.183830
author: Hao Wei
url: /2019/02/friday-hacks-168
---

We're back from the lunar new year break!

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="The HANGAR by NUS Enterprise"
    date="February 15"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/2027310937388837/" >}}

### WebRTC: Real Time Media Revolution

#### Talk Description:

At the beginning of the decade, Google introduced WebRTC to the world, in an effort to fill a gap between desktop and web. Nowadays WebRTC is everywhere, in your phone, your apps, your fridge. Facebook is using it at the core of Messenger and claims a whooping 17 billion calls, for example. More and more complex apps, with programmatic APIs, AI, ... are augmenting the original tech for truly amazing products. Now that WebRTC Next Version is being worked on, it's a good time to position the start-up ecosystem to be ready for the next disruptive wave.

#### Speaker Profile

Dr. Alexandre Gouaillard is CEO of CoSMo Software Consulting Pte. Ltd., Singapore.

CoSMo is a boutique software consulting company created in Singapore by A*STAR alumni. Under contract with Google and collaborating with Apple, Microsoft, and many others, they have developed a portfolio of advanced tools and software to help other businesses implement and maintain their real-time communication solutions. This year, they have opened a subsidiary in the Philippines, acquired a company in Spain, and made a JV in USA to accommodate their growth (+125% Y2Y).


### Microservices Monitoring

Introduction to monitoring pillars: logging, tracing and metrics

#### Talk Description:

In the world of Microservices, observability is one of the first challenges you need to think of. We will start with an introduction of the monitoring domain, then learn how to monitor a Spring Boot microservice using modern monitoring and visualization tools like Micrometer, Prometheus and Grafana.

#### Speaker Profile

Louay Mohamed and Vladimir Dimitrov are senior engineers at TransferWise.

TransferWise is a UK-based money transfer service launched in 2011 with headquarters in London and offices in a number of cities, including Singapore.

