---
title: "Friday Hacks #170, March 15"
date: 2019-03-09 23:53:25.677914
author: Hao Wei
url: /2019/03/friday-hacks-170
---

We're back from recess week! Hope everyone had a good break and that midterms went well.

{{% friday_hack_header
    venue="Seminar Room 5, Level 2, Town Plaza, University Town, NUS"
    date="March 15"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/2227832780789309/" %}}


### A Markov Chain Model for Hockey Playoff Gambling

#### Talk Description:

Learn how to lose money quickly by gambling with this one simple trick!

We present a quantitative betting strategy for National Hockey League (NHL) playoff games. While we don’t promise positive returns, we hope to provide a unique application of logistic regression and Markov chains to predicting sporting event results.

#### Speaker Profile

Jonathan Chow is a third-year exchange student from the University of Waterloo in Canada. He studies mathematical finance and has interned in algorithmic trading and portfolio construction.



### Unleashing the power of kubectl

#### Talk Description:

Do you use kubectl? How efficiently do you use Kubernetes? In this talk,
we will explore some of the most powerful, interesting and lesser-known
features of the Kubernetes command line i.e kubectl, such as how you can
set the editor of your choice for kubectl, how to learn about Kubernetes
resources using kubectl only, and a lot more cool stuff. This will also
be useful for people dealing with the OpenShift CLI (oc).

While preparing for the CKA (Certified Kubernetes Administrator) exam,
I found some of the commands very interesting and worth sharing
with a wider audience. This will not just unleash the power of Kubernetes,
but these tricks will help you learn new things about kubectl which will
improve your productivity with kubectl.

#### Speaker Profile

Suraj Narwade is an open source enthusiast who contributes to the ODO,
Kompose and Kedge projects. He occasionally contributes to
Kubernetes and Libcompose too. He is an active member of the local
container-centric meetups in Bangalore and Pune, India. He is also one
of the organisers of Kubernetes Bangalore Meetup.

As a software engineer at Red Hat, he works on tools that help
developers build and deploy containerized applications. He presented
his work at FOSSASIA 2018 and DevOps Day 2017.

