---
title: "Friday Hacks #183, Nov 1: Production Data Pipelines and Open Source at Facebook"
date: 2019-10-31 00:00:00
author: Raynold Ng
url: /2019/10/friday-hacks-184
---

{{% friday_hack_header
    venue="Town Plaza Seminar Room 5, UTown, NUS"
    date="Oct 25"
    fb_event="https://www.facebook.com/events/476154872990572/" %}}

### How to Build a Production Data Pipeline

#### Talk Description:

We are living in the age of data where every decision that an enterprise takes is based on the insights obtained from data. In this talk, I will touch on what are the different organizational roles that deal with data. Then I will zoom in on how to build a data pipeline from data collection all the way to visualizing the data into dashboards and charts.

#### Speaker Profile

Deanne Lim has 15+ years of experience in software development, with her career being focused on data. She joined Autodesk in 2014 and has been the Engineering Manager for the Autodesk Data Platform for the past 5 years. She is passionate about big data and how it can be used as a competitive advantage to unlock business value in today's fast paced and competitive world. Another thing she is passionate about is tennis and aims to watch all the grand slams eventually.

### Scaling Open Source at Facebook

#### Talk Description:

With over 500 open source projects in Facebook's portfolio, we face some unique challenges in developing and maintaining these projects and making sure we're actively serving the community. In this talk, we will find out more about how Facebook goes about doing that by describing those challenges, how we've attempted to solve them, and lessons learned. 

#### Speaker Profile

Yangshun is an NUS alumni who developed NUSMods and started NUSWhispers. He is currently a Front End Engineer at Facebook who is obsessed about building high-quality user experience and developer experiences. In his spare time, he hacks on Open Source projects to help people build pretty websites, write better documentation and improve their technical interviewing skills.

Please RSVP at our Facebook event [here](https://www.facebook.com/events/476154872990572/) if you are coming so we know how many people to cater for.

See you there!
