---
title: "Friday Hacks #197, November 06"
date: 2020-10-30 00:00:00
author: Chaitanya Baranwal
url: /2020/11/friday-hacks-197
summary: This week, we'll be talking about using AI to optimize revenue and uptake in tourism, and using Kafka to handle 2 billion triggers a day!
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, November 6 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** <https://www.nushackers.org/fh197zoom>

### Resurgence of AI in Travel and Tourism

#### Talk Description:

Artificial Intelligence (AI) was emerging to be a very pivotal component of the travel and tourism industry. But with recent developments around the world, the travel and tourism industry has taken a backseat. In this talk, the speaker would like to share his views on:
* How the travel and tourism industry will adapt to this changing climate?
* How AI will be pivotal for Travel and Tourism in the future?
* Latest developments in AI for this industry

#### Speaker Profile:

Desmond graduated from NUS with a Masters of Knowledge Engineering, has more than 8 years of experience in the industry and is passionate about enabling the next wave of tech disruptions such as Data Science, Artificial Intelligence and Augmented Reality to hit the traditional industries. Having been involved in various projects, he has experienced the full spectrum of architecting, designing, development and maintenance of enterprise systems which are both web and mobile based systems. He is experienced in merging traditional software engineering and the cutting-edge developments in business intelligence, data analytics and artificial intelligence.

As a Co-Founder of Xaltius Pte. Ltd. in Singapore, he is spear heading new products surrounding Travel and Healthcare using AI/AR technologies.

### Stream Processing with Kafka Stream: How we handle 2 billions triggers a day

#### Talk Description:

A trigger is a business rule defined to automatically perform some actions when specified conditions are satisfied. In this talk, we will present how we develop a new service with Kafka Stream handling 2 billions triggers a day.

#### Speaker Profile:

Nguyen Truong Khanh is a staff software engineer at Zendesk, building reliable, scalable chat platform. Previously, he worked at Teralytics, Shopee, and Autodesk. Khanh holds a BS from Ho Chi Minh University of Technology and did his PhD in Computer Science at NUS.

See you there!
