---
title: "Friday Hacks #194, October 9"
date: 2020-10-01 00:00:00
author: Chaitanya Baranwal
url: /2020/10/friday-hacks-194
nofh: true
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, October 9 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** <https://www.nushackers.org/fh194zoom>

### TDD Changed My Life

#### Talk Description:

Test Driven Development (TDD) is an engineering technique where tests and code are written in small increments, with tests written before code.  When done well, it has surprisingly large impacts on the quality of the code. This presentation will explain how it works, and then demonstrate it in action.

#### Speaker Profile:

Jake has been a software developer for 20 years.  He is currently a staff software engineer at Indeed and leads a team developing software to identify and recommend potential jobs to job seekers.  He has worked in a variety of industries including consulting, online gambling, finance and tech.  He has worked with a diverse array of tools & languages including Java, Python & Haskell.  He has worked in 6 different cities in 4 different countries. As a developer Jake's focus is on ensuring that his software helps as many people as possible get jobs, making sure that his team is able to keep working efficiently and helping other developers learn to do what he does.  He also hates titles and corporate jargon. In his spare time Jake plays Smash Bros with his kids, cycles, barbeques and does what his wife tells him.

### Using Machine Learning for Creating Optimal Strategies for Imperfect Information Games

#### Talk Description:

We would talk about mathematics of the game, using and designing simulations and most recent machine learning concepts involved in arriving at optimal strategies. The codes highlighting some of these concepts will also be reviewed and shared. There will be a problem-solving opportunity at the end of the event for participants to work on and get an attractive prize.

#### Speaker Profile:

Denis is a senior quantitative researcher in our team and has many years of experience working in the high-frequency trading industry.

See you there!
