---
title: "Friday Hacks #196, October 23"
date: 2020-10-13 00:00:00
author: Chaitanya Baranwal
url: /2020/10/friday-hacks-196
summary: Tune to know how Stripe.js works behind the scenes, and the nuts-and-bolts details of our favourite Leetcode language - Python.
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, October 23 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** <https://www.nushackers.org/fh196zoom>

### A Look Under the Hood of Stripe.js

#### Talk Description:

Stripe.js are pre-built UI elements that abstract away the complexity of integrating with complex payment methods, easing integration experience for developers. In this talk, I will share about the workings of Stripe.js, and explain the design considerations that were made in creating this library.

#### Speaker Profile:

Ankita works as a Software Engineer at Stripe, working on building global payments infrastructure. She enjoys working on both front-end and back-end technologies as a part of her work. Her interests involve web development, distributed systems, data pipelines, and infrastructure management.

### A Brief Tour of CPython Internals

#### Talk Description:

Python is *the* language for Leetcode interviews. Supposedly, not knowing the difference between `b=a` and `b=a[:]` could cost you a job. Despite its perceived importance, what lies within the language is a mystery for most. In this talk, we plan to give a tour of common features of Python and how they are implemented: For instance, Garbage Collection, the Global Interpreter Lock, and parts of the Standard Library.  We will also introduce the disassembler and use it to inspect the behaviour of a few short programs.

#### Speaker Profile:

Joel is a Master’s in Statistics student from the National University of Singapore. He was previously a member of NUS Hackers during his time as an undergrad at the School of Computing. He is an avid user of Python and has used it for a few years. In his free time he enjoys learning languages like Spanish and Elixir.

See you there!
