---
title: "Friday Hacks #206, August 27: Video Streaming"
date: 2021-08-23 22:00:00.000000
author: Zhang Ziqing
url: /2021/08/friday-hacks-206
summary: Join us either online or offline, and tune in to talks about Video Streaming & Observability in Production!
nofh: true
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, August 27 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** AS6-LT15, NUS or Online on Zoom<br />
Sign up [here][1] only if you are NUS attendees and wish to come for F2F Session.<br />
**Zoom Link:** https://nus-sg.zoom.us/j/83651946480?pwd=dG84TWFOQUltWjE4bUlWaWF1bEcvdz09

### From Netflix to Zoom: Demystifying Video Streaming

#### Talk Description:

From attending lessons on Zoom to chilling with a movie on Netflix, video streaming services have become a part of our daily routines. This talk will explain the "magic" behind such video streaming applications. No networking background is necessary.

Prof Ooi will first lay down the basic concepts of networking at a very high level before exploring the fundamental principles of video streaming, delving into the challenges faced by such applications and the various techniques used to overcome them. The talk will end with an outlook towards the future of video streaming. Prof Ooi will outline recent research results and agendas in his research group to push the envelope of video streaming by making a video stream interactive.

#### Speaker Profile:

Prof Ooi is an associate Professor of Computer Science at the National University of Singapore.

### Observability in Production

#### Talk Description:

Production is this amazing environment where Murphy's law is proven every day. Thus, getting sufficient visibility is critical in production. When you are under pressure, trying to find out why this remote procedure call is timing out, that single log message or prometheus metric can be a lifesaver.

This talk will cover some observability tools we use in production, including prometheus, grafana, ELK, real user metrics, as well as Extended Berkeley Packet Filter (eBPF), which gives xray vision into linux.

#### Speaker Profile:

Omer is the Engineering Lead for BOOYAH! Live, a new live streaming platform from Garena.

[1]: https://nus.campuslabs.com/engage/submitter/form/start/498507
