---
title: "Friday Hacks #201, March 12: DSL for Computational Law & ML and ML Ops at Google"
date: 2021-03-08 00:00:00
author: Mayank Keoliya
url: /2021/03/friday-hacks-201
summary: Ever wondered how Gmail detects spam mail (or fails to, like Archipelago invitations)? Or whether you can use code to describe a legal contract? Tune in this week to hear from Vincent @ Google, and Meng @ Legalese!
categories:
  - Friday Hacks
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, March 12 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** <https://www.nushackers.org/fh201zoom>

### A Sneak Peek at a DSL for Computational Law

#### Talk Description:

Singapore recently approved a $15M grant to fund development of opensource languages and libraries for computational law – a software stack which seeks to do for legal and qualitative reasoning what the spreadsheet has done for quantitative reasoning. This talk considers laws and contracts as a problem in computer science, and proposes a domain-specific language amenable to formal verification and other old-fashioned AI methods like constraint logic programming, answer set programming, model checking, LTL/CTL, and type theory.

#### Speaker Profile:

As a programming language enthusiast, Meng programs in TypeScript, Haskell, Prolog, Python, and Perl, with Emacs and VS Code. He studied computer science at upenn.edu, co-authored RFC4408, and co-founded a handful of startups including pobox.com, hackerspace.sg, and jfdi.asia, and legalese.com. His research in computational law has taken him to Stanford’s CodeX Center for Legal Informatics, Harvard’s Berkman–Klein center for Internet & Society, and Ca’Foscari University of Venice. He is presently principal investigator at SMU’s Centre for Computational Law. He lives in Joo Chiat with his partner Alexis Chun and two dogs, @iodoodle and @lyragroodle on Instagram.

### ML & ML Ops @ Google

#### Talk Description:

In this talk, Vincent, who works in the Trust & Safety team @ Google, will be discussing about life, universe and everything Google - and a typical day working there. He'll also be talking about how Google uses machine learning to detect spam, and deploys this at a massive scale of over a billion devices. Don't worry if you're not an expert at machine learning though - the talk is accessible to the typical CS undergraduate!

#### Speaker Profile:

Vincent Tatan fights phishing with ML @ Google, using advanced ML algorithms and MLOps to protect Chrome, Gmail and Android users against phishing attacks on vulnerable populations. Vincent is also a writer for Towards Data Science.

In his free time, Vincent hacks on Kaggle and trains for triathlons or
cycling trips.

See you there!
