---
title: "Friday Hacks #213"
date: 2021-11-01 22:50:00.000000
author: Zhang Ziqing
url: /2021/11/friday-hacks-213
summary: Security at ExpressVPN, and Five Tips To Make You A Better Engineer
nofh: true
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, November 5 at 7:00pm <br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** https://nus-sg.zoom.us/j/89267743709?pwd=TmtPbkFUeG15Z2dBK2ZpTlVQRkVLQT09

### Security at ExpressVPN

#### Talk Description:

The aim of this talk is to shed some light on the work projects that security professionals are involved in at a tech company. In this talk, the breakdown of the different types of security professionals will be addressed as well as the necessary skillsets for their field of work.

Real world examples that we encounter at ExpressVPN will be showcased to supplement the content of the talk. Topics covered includes:

- Phishing (both Red and Blue team perspective)
- Reverse Engineering Security assessments

#### Speaker Profile:

Timothy is part of the red team at ExpressVPN. He works mainly on conducting security assessments and red team engagements.

He graduated from SMU's School of Information Systems back in 2019 and started his career at PricewaterhouseCoopers as a cybersecurity consultant initially before landing his role at ExpressVPN earlier this year.

### Five Tips To Make You A Better Engineer

#### Talk Description:

As an uncertain Computer Science student myself twenty years ago, who would I have loved the advice of? My future veteran self I suppose! I'll share my ethos and approach that will hopefully accelerate your career in the Information Age we now live in.

#### Speaker Profile:

Kai Hendry is a Tech Lead at Thoughtworks, specialising in managed Infrastructure aka Serverless. He uploads videos to https://www.youtube.com/user/kaihendry and he uses Arch.
