---
title: "Friday Hacks #202, March 19"
date: 2021-03-13 00:00:00
author: Mayank Keoliya
url: /2021/03/friday-hacks-202
summary: It's a Ruby Friday Hack - with the creator of Ruby!

nofh: true
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, March 19 at 7:00pm<br />
**Venue:** Online on Zoom<br />
**Zoom Link:** <https://www.nushackers.org/fh202zoom>

### RubyLand! Introducing Ruby 3.0

#### Speaker Profile:

Yukhiro Matsumoto (better known as Matz) is the chief designer of the Ruby programming language, and its interpreter. He's also the Chief Architect of Ruby at the cloud platform-as-a-service company Heroku. Matz released Ruby 3.0 last Christmas - after a marathon 5 year development period. He's contributed immensely to the open source community and Ruby in general, leading to the MINASWAN adage in the Ruby community - "Matz is nice and so we are nice." 

### What's Love Got to Do With It? Ruby and Sentiment Analysis

#### Talk Description:

The societies we live in, the companies we work for, the media we consume and much more are all shaped by words. Words can infuriate, enlighten, bring joy or cause great despair. Natural Language Understanding gives us a window into analyzing the words that surround us for sentiment and tone.
How does Natural Language Understanding work? What insights can we glean from the data it provides?
We will take a dive into understanding how this technology works, and apply it in a Ruby app that connects Natural Language Understanding analysis, the daily headlines and social media all in one. Get ready to learn some Ruby, some human language insights and how they all intertwine!

#### Speaker Profile:

Ben Greenberg is a second career developer who previously spent a decade in the fields of adult education, community organizing and non-profit management. He works as a developer advocate for Nexmo, the Vonage API Platform by day and experiments with open source projects at night. He writes regularly on the intersection of community development and tech. Originally from Southern California and a long time resident of New York City, Ben now resides near Tel Aviv, Israel.


See you there!
