---
title: "Friday Hacks #217: Devtool Startup in SV and Ktor"
date: 2022-02-12 16:02:20.329003
author: Simon Julian Lauw
url: /2022/02/friday-hacks-217
nofh: true
---

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="Online on Zoom (6pm - 8pm)"
    date="2022-02-18T18:00:00+08:00" >}}

**YouTube Recording:** https://youtu.be/IFnBTQM48Po

## 1) How to build a Devtool startup in Silicon Valley

Are you curious what it takes to build a tech startup in Silicon Valley (SV)? Do you have an idea that will become the next unicorn?

Join me as we uncover the journey of creating the startup from 0 to 1! We will learn the technical and business challenges of turning an idea into a VC-funded startup - and how you can avoid mistakes that we made. We will also dive into the engineering decision-making process that led us to build out a full-fledged code editor in 3 months.

#### Speaker Profile

_Ying Hang_ is a Stanford alumnus and founding engineer at Tym, a startup that is building a browser-based code-editor that is designed for collaboration and can easily integrate with existing infrastructure

## 2) Ktor in Action

__Kotlin__ is an “ecosystem” for multiplatform development. In JetBrains, we created the Ktor framework to help developers to build backend services easily and rapidly. In this talk, I will introduce what Ktor is and demonstrate how to build an API in minutes. After listening to this talk, you will have a better understanding of Kotlin in backend development.

#### Speaker Profile

_Shengyou_ is a developer advocate at JetBrains. He is fascinated with researching new technology and fond of skills that increase productivity. In charge of promoting technology such as Kotlin, IntelliJ IDEA and providing solutions. He passionately contributed to open source communities and contributed to those for over 7 years.
