---
title: "Friday Hacks #215, January 28"
date: 2022-01-22 13:38:40.448852
author: Simon Julian Lauw
url: /2022/01/friday-hacks-215
---

{{< friday_hack_header
    venue="TBD (Physical)"
    date="January 28"
    food="pizza"
    rsvp_link="#" >}}

**Zoom Link:** https://www.nushackers.org/fhzoom

## 1) Getting Started with Reinforcement Learning - A Project-Based Approach

You may have heard of the successes of AI over humans in games such as Go, StarCraft and DoTa 2. The core technology behind these AI successes is __reinforcement learning (RL)__. Other than video games, RL is also used in industry for recommendation, search and dynamic pricing. RL can seem quite intimidating to beginners due to the vastness of the field. 

In this talk, I share my personal journey in RL projects, and share some resources and advice for getting started with learning RL.

#### Speaker Profile

_Jet New_ is a year 3 Computer Science undergraduate at NUS, focusing on artificial intelligence. He researches reinforcement learning at the NUS Collaborative, Learning and Adaptive Robotics Lab, and leads as president of the NUS Statistics and Data Science Society, organizing technical workshops and the annual NUS Data Science Competition. He previously interned at Grab and IMDA as a machine learning engineer.

## 2) The 5W1H on Open-source Machine Learning

__Open-source Machine Learning (ML)__ is a tricky business. One the one hand, it aims to supplement ongoing state-of-the-art research, and on the other, it provides tooling to facilitate this research with Ops-related tooling. 

I will talk about the funky takeaways and important lessons learnt over the past few years contributing to ML Open-Source Software (OSS) in the form of easy-to-use model wrappers and implementations. Hopefully, you'll be able to find concrete steps on how to get started with ML OSS and understand why it's an important part of the ML ecosystem!

#### Speaker Profile

_Rishabh Anand_ is a year 2 CS and Math undergraduate at NUS. By practice, he is also a Machine Learning research student looking into Graph Deep Learning, Reinforcement Learning, and Self-supervised Learning. He has spent the past ~5 years jumping between academia and industry working on cool AI projects. When not working on p-sets, Rishabh spends his time as a technical writer on AI, ML, and technology in general. He is also an active open-source contributor for ML tooling.

