---
title: "Friday Hacks #227, September 09: Practical Challenges of Data Ingestion at Scale and From Thought to Launch"
date: 2022-09-03 16:13:14.5144
author: Shen Yi Hong
url: /2022/09/friday-hacks-227
nofh: false 
---

**Date/Time:** Friday, September 09 at 7:00pm SGT<br />
**Venue:** [**The Hangar** @ i3 Building](https://goo.gl/maps/aUMwWptKFsajR93b9)<br />
**Sign-up Link:** [NUSync Sign-up Link](https://nus.campuslabs.com/engage/submitter/form/start/556619)<br />

> **Food 🍕 will be served!**

_If you are unable to come join us physically, you are welcome to join us [online](https://nus-sg.zoom.us/j/83482473723?pwd=TW5nWitzRFlhOWdLaEVKYlVGMjJDdz09)!_

## 1) Practical Challenges of Data Ingestion at Scale

With data being at the core of what we do at Marshall Wace, this comes with the challenge of vertically and horizontally scaling data ingestion across thousands of pipelines and terabytes of data. In this session, Marshall Wace's Head of Data Operations, Louis Ditzel, will discuss how his team tackles this through various in-house platforms.
### Speaker Profile

Louis is the Head of Data Operations in Marshall Wace. He joined Marshall Wace in 2017 as a technology graduate and has since rotated through the Cybersecurity team as well as the Data Engineering team, eventually settling in the latter. He is currently focused on bringing scale to our data pipeline, improving the reliability of the platform and changing the way we monitor data ingestion.

## 2) From Thought to Launch

This talk will walk you through the lifecycle of a feature at [GitHub](https://github.com) and the processes involved in taking an idea to production leveraging GitHub features such as Discussions, Issues/Memex, Pull Requests, etc.

### Speaker Profile

Yumin ([@itsbagpack](https://github.com/itsbagpack)) is a Staff Software Engineer at Github under the Communities department. She is involved in the development of GitHub Sponsors, Discussions, Feed, Dashboard, Profile, Achievements, etc.

<br />
